# RFC-001 - Base platform

The purpose of this document is to outline the base technology platform that will be used across the open source project. The technology is informed by the following considerations:

- The project will build and maintain a core set of modules
- The project will publish a set of official `Docker` images that officially supportable
- A detailed framework that other developers can use to build custom modules
- Instructions and methods for other providers to build and publish custom images

Anomaly has conducted a set of experiments, and developed the stack from our experience of delivering projects.

The project will make available a `foundation` which will feature:

- Database migration tools
- Authentication
- Containerised deployment

Each functional feature will be made available as a separate module, maintained in a separate repository, enabling anyone to build and deploy a solution that suits their use case.

## Technology

Wattle is built using the following software technologies:

- **Python** is the programming language of choice for the server
- **Typescript** is the programming language of choice for the client, all official modules are developed using the **React** framework.
- **Postgres** is the database of choice, note that we use SQLAlchemy as an ORM layer, and so it should be possible to support other backends.
- **S3** compatible object store
- **Docker** is used to create software containers

To ensure that Wattle is truly open source, all underlying components are available in the public domain and is not locked to an infrastructure provider.

Note this section does not cover specific libraries or tools used. Please refer to the [DEVELOPER](DEVELOPER.md) documentation available in this repository.

## Authentication

`foundation` provides an in built `Cookie` based authentication system, which is used by default for both back office and front office functionality.

We intend to support `SAML` and `OAuth2` based services authentication.

## Integrations

The following are officially supported integrations, users of the system are not limited to these.

## Payments

Stripe is the payment gateway supported ground up by Wattle. We utilise the payments and subscriptions APIs for various features presented by the base offering. Stripe also brings modern approaches like Apple Pay and Google Pay, as well support for traditional offerings like direct debit.

_Note:_ the deployment requires you to understand and possess access to a fully verified Stripe account.

## Deployment

Anomaly uses Linode to deploy most of their production workloads, an official set of Terraform recipes will be made available