# RFC-003 - Membership management

Version: 2.0

Role | Executor
| -- | -- |
Proposed by | Kristopher Dunstan, Temora Shire Council
Designed and Developed by | Anomaly Software Pty Ltd

# Membership lifecycle

Since the initial implementation of the system and rollout there have been a number of feedback items that highlight the true lifecycle of a membership. The initial implementaiton was rather simplistic. The following is a truer representation of the process:

- A customer wishes to start or renew a or a set of memberships at the Recreation Centre
- A customer may be responsible for multiple memberships (e.g parent buying memberships for two children)

When a customer arrives at the portal, the system:
- Presents them an interfaces to enter the customers details
- The system then allows them to process any number of memberships under their profile
- The system should have the ability to turn autorenew on or off (depending on the organisation the prices can change each year)

Once the customer has added the desired memberships to their cart, the system:
- Presents them with the option to pay upfront or pay monthly
- Certain tiers will not have the opportunity to pay upfront
- The system should group all payments together (i.e when there are multiple memberships) or perhaps this be an option in case they want to cancel a membership but not the other?
- The customer is presented with a option for paying by card or a bank account

Upon successful lodgement the system takes the payment and proceeds to sync the memberships with their cards.

A customer is able to then login to their portal to manageme these memberships.

# Overview

The original proposal came from Temora Shire council, wanting to automate membership management of their recreation centre. The current solution involves maintaining manual ledgers, accepting payments (over the phone or in person) and updating the access control system.

The proposed solution will broadly cover the following:
- A web based backend that allows managing members and their memberships
- Payment integration via Stripe to automate accepting payments and ultimately automate renewal
- A customer facing web interface allowing them to manage their memberships
- Integration with the access control system (primarily [Gallagher](https://gallaghersecurity.github.io) via their REST API)

> Gallagher has extensive SDKs for all platforms,  including mobile platforms, which allows creation of apps with NFC based tokens.

# Assumptions

Memberships will be managed via Stripe, due to their rich set of features. It's assumed that anyone using this module will provision a Stripe account.

# Catalogue of memberships

The organisation will offer a set of memberships, across various facilities. Memberships can be recurring or single use.

E.g: a recurring membership to a swimming pool, or a one time pass to use concert hall.

A membership type may or may not have a cost associated with it.

These products will be provisioned on Stripe and the system will maintain a reflection of the data.

# Backoffice

The first component to be developed will be a back office module that will allow users of the organisation to create new members and manage their memberships.

> Members created by this module will eventually be a user of the system, the design should accommodate this.

The organisation user creates a new member, or uses a search functionality to find an existing member.

The system presents a list of their current and historical memberships, including renewals.

The user is then able to:
- Renew their membership
- Start a new membership
- Cancel a membership (note we will have to outline the rules around cancellation)
- Vary their membership i.e go from a monthly plan to an annual plan

Payments will be processed through Stripe. 

> At the moment Wattle uses Stripe Connect, we will be moving away from this so each council can have their own managed setup.

# Customer facing interfaces

The customer can either create a service account to access the various online services, or if the customer has already been provisioned on the systems then the council can send out an invite via the system for the customer to take control of their account.

The customer is then presented by an interface where they can manage their memberships and update their payment methods.

# Gallagher integration

Gallagher are a New Zealand based maker of security products. Their control centre has a RESTful API that allows provisioning of security cards, allowing access to various facilities.

The aim of this integration is to automatically push the access control rules to the control centre.

> The control centre lives on the physical premises, either a bot will have to poll data or the web infrastructure will have to find  away to communicate over a VPN.

Rules around how often the system will push the rules to the control centre will need to be defined.
